---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

## Research Grant Applications

The National Institute of Health offers several research grants that researchers can apply for to support their work. I will be modeling my proposal based on the required format for the R01 grant, which is a standard four to five years of funding to complete a research project and publish. Here is a breakdown and brief description of each of the sections:  

- **Introduction:**
	This section provides a concise overview of the proposed research. It presents the background and rationale for the investigation. Additionally, this section highlights the knowledge gaps in the existing body of work and introduces the central hypothesis.

- **Specific Aims:**
	In this section, the research grant proposal outlines the specific objectives (aims) of the study. Each aim is presented as a testable hypothesis and is aligned with the overall central hypothesis. The aims delineate the key questions to be addressed and the expected outcomes of the proposed investigations. 

- **Background and Significance:**
	This section provides an in-depth review of the current literature.  The significance of the proposed research is discussed, demonstrating how it fills existing knowledge gaps and builds upon prior work.

- **Innovation:**
	This section underscores the potential transformative impact of the research findings on the broader scientific community.  Moreover, the section highlights the innovative aspects of the research, such as novel methodologies, cutting-edge technologies, and/or interdisciplinary collaborations.

- **Preliminary Studies:**
	In this section, the research team presents any preliminary data and findings relevant to the proposed research. These preliminary studies demonstrate the feasibility of the experimental approach and the validity of the hypotheses. The data also serve to support the likelihood of successful outcomes for the proposed investigations. (This will not be included in my proposal)

- **Research Plan:**
	The research plan section provides a detailed outline of the experimental design, methodology, and data analysis strategies for each specific aim. It describes the data, experimental models, and technologies to be utilized. Further, the section discusses potential challenges and how they will be addressed to ensure the successful execution of the research plan. Timelines and milestones are included here to showcase the project's feasibility and efficiency.

- **Future Directions and Budget:**
	The research grant proposal concludes with a discussion of the project's future directions beyond the funding period. Additionally, it outlines plans for data sharing and dissemination to maximize the broader impact of the research on the scientific community. Finally, this section also includes a budget overview and justifications for the requested funding to ensure the sustainability of the project.

## Reflections

This has been a writing and reading intensive week. I received feedback from Dr. Chacko about my initial draft, where I outlined my interest in bridging IR and Scientometrics. So far, I haven't been able to articulate exactly how I want to modify existing methods. What I have right now seems to be a replication of existing studies such as Boyack & Klavans (2010), Klavans & Boyack (2017) and Ahlgren et al. (2020). 

These studies are evaluating whether we can obtain some amount of accurate clusters when using direct citations, bibliographic coupling, co-citations or some combination of the three relationships to model the edges. There are a couple of underlying assumptions here: 1.) We can obtain accurate clusters via disjoint partitioning and 2.) Accuracy is equivalent to high precision clusters.

In IR, there is the need to strike a balance between recall *and* precision. Further, a research paper could reasonably belong to more than one cluster if it is multidisciplinary or a methods paper. I would like to create a post-processing method to handle these cases to evaluate if I can increase recall, without losing the precision of clusters. 




