---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

## CM ++

In it's first iteration, the `Connectivity Modifier` (CM) was a generic meta-method developed by grad students in our lab to improve the connectivity of clusters produced by the Leiden Algorithm (and others). It recursively iterated over each cluster produced by Leiden and utilized `VieCut`, a heuristic, practical minimum cut algorithm, to ensure that clusters met a user-set minimum threshold of connectivity. Connectivity here refers to the minimum number of edge cuts necessary to split a cluster into two disjoint clusters.

In its most recent iteration (CM++), it has been parallelized, and a modular pipeline has been developed. Here, in addition to providing the network, specifying the clustering algorithm (and resolution where applicable), and the minimum threshold, the user can also specify the number of parallel processes. The fundamental stages of the modular pipeline are as follows: 

   - **Stage 1. Clean-Up:** The pipeline accepts an input network as an edge list and removes any self-loops or parallel edges. 
   - **Stage 2. Clustering:** A clustering algorithm is specified by the user (i.e., Leiden, IKC, etc.) The cleaned edge list from Stage 1 is partitioned into disjoint clusters (at the resolution specified, if applicable). 
   - **Stage 3. Pre CM Filtering:** All clusters that are trees or stars, which by definition in graph theory are poorly connected, are removed from the partition. Additionally, all clusters that fail to meet the user specified threshold are also discarded. 
   - **Stage 4. CM:** Each cluster is evaluated to see if it meets the user-specified threshold for connectivity. If it does, it's left unmodified. If it doesn't, the parent cluster is split into smaller clusters and each child cluster is verified. 
   - **Stage 5. Post CM Filtering:** Some child clusters may be below the user-specified size threshold, so these clusters are discarded. 
   - **Stage 6. Analysis:** The number of clusters, node coverage, node count, minimum, median, and max cluster size are calculated for Stage 2, Stage 3, Stage 4, and Stage 5. 

In addition to the standard functions, CM++ also includes several options to collect basic statistics between stages:

- For each cluster, the number of nodes, edges, modularity, cpm score, connectivity, normalized connectivity, and conductance can be calculated. 

## Reflections

The assignment of the week is clustering the High-Energy Physics Citation Network and the Patent Citation Network from SNAP at two different resolutions using Leiden CPM and running them through the CM++ pipeline to see what happens. 

As part of this assignment, we will also be helping the developers of the CM++ pipeline by providing them with a user experience report. 

Thus far, it has been smooth sailing. Most of my time has actually been focused on identifying a solution for the analysis problem I encountered last week. For some reason, I am unable to use any of the Python packages installed in my environment such as pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, through Jupyter Notebook on the remote server.

In other news, I had the opportunity to meet with one of Dr. Chacko's collaborators, Dr. Charles Kirschbaum, this week. Dr. Kirshbaum works in the realm of social network analysis. More specifically, he is interested in analyzing a network of jazz musicians based on discography data which covers the time period 1930 to 1969. This project is still under development, so a large part of the discussion was understanding what data we had, what was missing, how the data could be modeled to effectively answer our research question(s). Since time was also a dimension in his work, we also talked about how time could be accounted for in cluster analysis. 

## Learning Objectives

- SSH Port-Forwarding
- Community Search
- Social Network Analysis vs. Citation Network Analysis

