---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

## Approximation Algorithms

Last week, we briefly discussed approximation algorithms in our post about 'Community Search.' This week, let's delve into a more comprehensive exploration of this topic.

Many of the problems we've covered, including optimal modularity and finding the best community in community search, are not solvable in polynomial time. However, their solutions can be *verified* in such time. These problems belong to the category of _non-deterministic polynomial_ (NP) problems. Alternatively, we can find approximate solutions within a reasonable timeframe using heuristics or approximate algorithms.

Approximation algorithms are a class of algorithms for optimization problems where discovering an exact, optimal solution might be impractical due to computational constraints. Instead of guaranteeing an unequivocal best outcome, these algorithms yield solutions that are “close enough” to the optimal within a reasonable timeframe.

The core concept of approximation algorithms involves striking a balance between optimality and efficiency. They seek solutions that lie within a certain factor of the optimal solution—often referred to as the “approximation ratio” or “approximation factor.” For instance, a 2-approximation algorithm assures that the provided solution is at most twice the size (or value) of the optimal solution.

We can explore 2-approximation algorithm using the `Minimum Vertex Cover`, another NP class problem. Here's the problem: 

```
Given an undirected graph G, find the smallest set of nodes such that every edge in the graph is incident to at least one node in the set. In other words, find the smallest set of nodes that cover all the edges in the graph. 
```

To find the optimal solution, we'd need to evaluate each edge defined by the nodes {_u, v_} and decide whether either node _u_ or node _v_ should be part of the solution. As previously mentioned, solving this problem optimally within polynomial time is unfeasible.

Alternatively, we can take a greedy approach—instead of scrutinizing whether _u_ or _v_ is the right choice, we include both nodes in our solution set and eliminate the edge from the graph. We then proceed to select another edge, incorporate the two nodes connected by that edge into our solution, and remove the edge. This cycle repeats until no edges remain.

And there we have it—a 2-approximation algorithm! While the solution set encompasses twice the number of nodes (due to the inclusion of _u_ and _v_), it still manages to identify a set of nodes that comprehensively cover the entire graph.

## Reflections

Dr. Tandy Warnow joined our meeting this week and gave us a brief introduction into approximation algorithms. This was the inspiration of this week's blog post topic. 

I also had the opportunity to pitch my still developing research idea to her, and I realized I have a lot more reading/fleshing out to do. Before I write about my research question (as it is now), here's a little background information: 

Research communities exhibit core-periphery structure, where a well-connected core and a periphery that is connected to the core, but more sparsely connected internally. A driving question in citation network analysis has been identifying emergent research topics. I hypothesized that a research article in the periphery of a community that is weakly connected to the core is more likely to become the core of an emergent research topic. I was hoping to use an algorithm like Infomap, which clusters based on random walk and uses the Map equation, to mark nodes of interest, cluster networks at different time slices, and track the movement of the markers. 

Unfortunately, there are at least two problems I failed to consider which have put a wrench in my plans. First, nodes at a core of a community at the initial time point are not guaranteed to stay within the same community in succeeding time points. Second, a community detected by an algorithm in one partition will not necessarily recur in subsequent partitions. There have been studies that have looked at citation networks diachronically, however, I find the methods are advanced, and I still have a lot of reading to do before I begin to understand the specifics. 






