---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

## Community Search (vs. Community Detection)

The aim of community search is to find a community in a graph *G* given a seed node *q* that, ideally, includes *q* and is well-connected. 

Unlike community detection, discussed previously, and community search differs on several fronts, including problem definition, answer criteria, methods, and even, optimal use case. 

First, community detection has a global scope, aiming to identify all communities in a given graph *G*. On the other hand, community search has a local scope, focusing on finding communities that meet a specific query and user-given criteria. 

Second, community detection uses a uniform definition of community by optimizing for a specific quality such as modularity, as discussed earlier. In contrast, community search attempts to define community based on user-given criteria. 

Since problem and answer definitions are different, the algorithms used by both also differ. Community search algorithms are more efficient as they focus on specific definitions and can avoid exploring the entire graph.

Finally, the ideal use cases for both approaches are also distinct. Community detection is more suited for static graphs, or time slices, and cases where it is necessary to classify or partition all nodes. Conversely, community search is more efficient and adept at handling dynamic graphs, therefore can be applied in information retrieval and recommendation systems which require real-time results. It can be used in a variety of settings, such as finding groups of users with similar preferences, finding groups of proteins that interact frequently with each other, and so on. 

It is important to note, however, that finding exact communities is a computationally intensive problem, especially for ever-growing large, real-world networks. Therefore, approximation algorithms are used to provide fast and near-optimal solutions.

Approximation algorithms in the context of community search aim to strike a balance between computational efficiency and solution quality. They offer a practical approach for analyzing real-world networks with millions or billions of nodes and edges. 

## Reflections

Last week, I submitted my third assignment! [Here](../files/A3Report.pdf) is an improved version of the report that I submitted. This assignment focused on examining the effects of the CM++ pipeline and evaluating the Leiden algorithm with this added information. 

Aside from successfully using the CM++ pipeline, one of my successes for this week was troubleshooting the difficulty I was having with Jupyter Notebook in the remote server. Turns out, there was a notebook formatting error. I was able to write a Python script to re-format the notebook using the function `nbformat.v4.upgrade()` and that took care of it. 

This week's research assignment is based on the research article for Journal Club: “Effective community search over large spatial graphs” by Y. Fang et al. 2017. It offered a different perspective from what we've been working on so far, so I spent some time reading review articles about community search. 

This week, we transition from the guided learning phase to the independent learning phase of this research experience! One task I've been working on during the past several weeks is trying to find a project I can pursue on my own. Thus far, I've been drawing a blank because this area still feels new to me and any idea I do come up with either replicates existing work or isn't well-supported by existing literature. 

Given the time restrictions and the challenges I've encountered, Dr. Chacko has suggested that my project be writing a research grant proposal. This allows me to do a literature review, explore a breadth of methods within this area of research, design evaluations, and slowly build my research identity. I'm excited to see how this pans out. 

