---
layout: post
title: Week 12
---

## Final Perspectives on Research

### Experience Overview:
At the start of this experience, I listed several objectives I hope to accomplish. They were: 

1. To be able to articulate the scientific process within this domain. 
	
	*While my independent project was focused on research question ideation and designing a research plan, I was exposed to projects in different stages of completion at the lab.*

2. To expand my technical skill set and gain experience working with domain-specific tools.

	 *Over three months, I have become much more comfortable using a variety of different tools. I have learned how to retrieve data using SQL, analyze and visualize data using different Python packages such as pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib and seaborn. I have also become comfortable using different graph packages such as igraph, NetworkX and NetworKit. Furthermore, I also gained some exposure to R, which I hope to become more proficient in, in the near future. Lastly, I have become proficient at using different clustering algorithms and conducting network analysis.* 
	 
	 *Additionally, I have become adept at using git for version control, navigating my system using the terminal, automating tasks with bash scripting, and many more tools!*

3. To gain an understanding of what a doctorate program in Computer Science might be like and finalize my future education plans.

	 *My experiences working in Dr. Chacko's lab has given me some insight into my future educational plans. While I immensely enjoyed collaborating with Dr. Chacko and my fellow lab members, I became acutely aware of my need for more substantial experience in the realm of Computer Science. In the coming fall, I intend to dedicate time to explore alternative research domains, prior to making a definitive decision about pursuing a PhD program. I'm incredibly grateful to everyone I have worked with for instilling invaluable habits, like keeping up with the scholarly literature, and setting me up for success regardless of the path I choose.*

4. To learn about Scientometrics!
	
	*The many blog posts on this topic are a testament to how much I have learned about scientometrics this summer—and yet, I acknowledge that I have only scratched the surface.*

### Future Directions

In the Fall, I will be starting my Master's in Computer Science at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. I hope to expand upon what I've learned during the summer and continue gaining experience in research. 

## Report

Please find my research grant proposal [here](../files/ResearchProposal_Final.pdf). I think I would like to refine the research question further and work on it in the future!





