---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---

## Citation Networks

Simply, networks are a collection of connected entities. Networks can be used to model complex systems in a variety of fields: sociology, biology, computer science, etc. 

In citation networks, the nodes are scientific publications and edges (or links) are determined by different types of citation relationships between two documents. There are three main types of relationships studied within the field of scientometrics: 

1. Direct Citations:

	Direct citations establish a direct connection between a publication and its predecessors, articles that influenced or contributed to the contained work. This concept is used to trace the flow of information, identify influential publications, and evaluate the impact of one publication within the field. Direct citation analyses are dynamic, but limited in scope – evaluating the impact of a publication or identifying influential publications is time-dependent, and these evaluations can change as a publication accumulates age. However, direct citation relationships do not give us insight into the larger structure of a scientific community.

2. Bibliographic Coupling: 

	Bibliographic coupling compares the bibliographies of two publications to see how many common citations they have. If two publications share many citations, it is inferred that they are likely to be thematically, conceptually, or topically similar. Bibliographic coupling analyses, I think, are more static – once two articles are published, their bibliographies are fixed. However, it has a larger scope than direct citations because it gives insight into the structure of the scientific community. (Kessler, 1963)

3. Co-Citations: 

	Where the relationship between two publications was determined by the authors of the publication in the previously discussed concepts, a co-citation relationship between two publications is determined by the citing authors. If an author of a publication cites two papers together, a co-citation relationship is formed. If several authors reference the same two papers together, the co-citation relationship is strengthened. Unlike bibliographic coupling, co-citation analyses are dynamic – the relationship grows temporally as more publications cite preceding works, and new co-citation relationships are formed and change as paradigm shifts occur within the field. Also, where bibliographic coupling reflects only the thoughts of authors on their own work and its influences, co-citation reflects the thoughts of the citing author on the link between the two publications. Lastly, unlike direct citations, co-citation relationships also offer more insight into the structure of a scientific community and patterns/trends within that community. (Small, 1973)

## Reflections

I submitted my first assignment for the lab last week! Here are some details about the assignment: 

I constructed a Boolean Query to extract the body of work on histone biology published between January 1, 1980, to December 31, 1990. The body of work was limited to `journal articles`. The query returned over 10,000 results. Unfortunately, the PubMed interface doesn't allow more than 10,000 records to be extracted at once. I initially dealt with this limitation by extracting the results in three batches and used a shell command to collate the three .CSV files. Another limitation imposed by the PubMed interface was the inability to customize what data is included in the exported file. To work around this, I wrote a python script that utilized the Entrez module from the Bio package to break the query into many smaller queries and return one collated .CSV file containing all the records. 

Both methods of extracting records resulted in the same data. This data was then processed to remove any duplicates and loaded into a PostgreSQL table. Next, I created a citation network where the DOIs were nodes and the edges were determined by joining this table to the Open Citations table. First, the resultant records were treated as the citing documents, and all documents they cited were recovered. Then, they were treated as the cited documents, and all documents that cite them were recovered.

[This](../files/A1Report.pdf) is an improved version of the report I submitted containing my aforementioned methods, some descriptive statistics and visualizations, and interpretation. 

Another tool I had to learn for this assignment was LaTeX! I have mixed feelings about this. I used the TexShop application, and while I liked the finished product, I did not like how it required me to interleave commands and text. Some pros for LaTeX are the convenience of rendering clean PDFs, ease of citing, and the ease of creating/including tables/figures. It may grow on me with further use. 

## Learning Objectives

- Using Stanford Network Analysis Platform's Large Network Database
- Community Detection
- Leiden Algorithm







