---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

## Tools of the Trade

Last week, we focused mainly on getting familiar with tools of the trade: text editors, Linux OS, and SQL. This is my first time working exclusively with the Command Line Interface (CLI) without the support of a Graphical User Interface (GUI). 

I spent the first few days setting up aliases and learning basic commands like `cat`, `touch`, etc.. This also meant learning about and choosing a text editor to work with. 

After a year in Computer Science, I finally have an opinion on the great Vim versus Emacs debate. The first few days, I worked with Emacs on the recommendation of my research advisor, but I quickly realized that the commands are not intuitive for me. I found that there is a steeper learning curve for Emacs, than there is for Vim. Unlike Emacs, Vim comes with the handy `vimtutor` which has lessened the learning curve somewhat. I guess my allegiances have been decided. (`:q` lets you quit Vim, *and* it makes more sense than `Ctrl+x, Ctrl+c`!)

Another tool I've added to my tool-belt are two Linux utilities, `sed` and `awk`. They are handy when parsing plain text data line-by-line. `sed` has been useful for simple search and replace and basic line editing. `awk` is more powerful, and has been useful for pattern-matching or extracting column information. 

Lastly, we have an in-house database of digital object identifiers (DOI) of scientific articles extracted and processed from the Open Citations (OCI) dataset (Peroni and Shotton, 2020) and loaded into a PostgreSQL table. It contains the DOI for 75,025,194 scientific publications and 1,363,605,603 edges between them. Consequently, working with this data requires some experience with SQL. I have been learning SQL basics, how to construct simple queries, as well as more advanced queries. 

## Reflections

I received my first assignment for the lab this week. I will be creating a network using a seed Boolean query on PubMed for the initial set of nodes and our OCI table for the citation relationships between the nodes.

This query and data collection were simple enough. However, I am struggling to evaluate the relationships I have gathered through OCI. For example, one DOI has over 500 references, which doesn't sound right unless this is a review paper. And my query isn't supposed to include any review papers. Verifying the accuracy of my results has amounted to searching for DOI with too high or too low reference/citation counts and cross-checking. It turns out that some review papers are accidentally labeled as articles. 

## Learning Objectives

- EntrezAPI and PubMed
- Edge Lists, SQL Joins
- Data Visualization with Python
- LaTeX

## Journal Club

One of the graduate students working in the lab presented what he has been working on in lieu of the regular Journal Club programming. Over the past year, he has been working on a tool that, when given a graph partition or cluster from a clustering algorithm, improves the connectivity within the clusters.  