---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

## Scientometrics and Information Retrieval

Bibliometrics and Scientometrics have significantly shaped the dynamics of scientific communication, impacting how researchers engage with one another, assess scholarly output, and communicate findings to the academic community. These frameworks have introduced crucial metrics that gauge the reach and significance of research, such as the Journal Impact Factor pioneered by bibliometrics pioneer Eugene Garfield, and the pioneering _h-index,_ developed by Jorge E. Hirsch, which quantitatively measures both a researcher's productivity and the impact of their publications.

However, a surprising gap remains in their influence on the  process of discovering research. Despite their prevalence in assessing research quality and influence, bibliometric/scientometric methods have not significantly impacted how researchers search for academic literature. Contemporary scholarly digital libraries like PubMed and Google Scholar continue to primarily rely on conventional keyword-based search and ranking mechanisms, often overlooking the rich potential offered by citation information.

Information retrieval (IR), the cornerstone of efficient literature search, is fundamentally geared toward satisfying a search task. In conventional IR, documents are retrieved and ranked based on keyword relevance, which can yield poor results due to the inherent ambiguity of words. This challenge becomes even more pronounced within the specialized domain of scholarly literature, where nuances and context play pivotal roles. Additionally, relevance in scholarly literature extends beyond semantic similarity to encompass factors like authorship and bibliographic context.

As we've discovered over the last several weeks, citation relationships capture a wealth of information such as information flow, similarity between two texts, etc. that could improve how we evaluate the relevance of a research article. 

In this context, it becomes evident that leveraging citation networks and citation clustering could help improve how researchers find relevant scholarly articles. By incorporating citation-based cluster information, search mechanisms could overcome the limitations of keyword-centric approaches, and offer a more holistic perspective on relevance.

## Reflections

It's unsurprising, given how I ended my last reflection, that I have had to make a strategic pivot. After several days spent reading articles, usually from the realm of social network analysis where more work involving networks changing over time has been done, I concede defeat.

My new research proposal is more within the realm of what I have spent the summer studying and is directly related to this week's blog post! I decided to synthesize some of what I've learned from my reading for this research project idea in this blog post. 

Generally speaking, I'll be proposing the first phase of a multiphase project to examine how existing citation-based clustering strategies can be optimized for the purpose of information retrieval. I still have a long way to go in terms of how I want to refine this rather broad idea. 







